docs/api-types/index-v1alpha1.md, before:



# API Documentation (v1alpha1)

> This document is automatically generated from the API definition in the code.

## Table of Contents
* [CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority)
* [DistinguishedName](#distinguishedname)
* [Remote](#remote)
* [Repository](#repository)
* [SigstoreKeys](#sigstorekeys)
* [TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance)
* [TrustRoot](#trustroot)
* [TrustRootList](#trustrootlist)
* [TrustRootSpec](#trustrootspec)
* [Attestation](#attestation)
* [Authority](#authority)
* [ClusterImagePolicy](#clusterimagepolicy)
* [ClusterImagePolicyList](#clusterimagepolicylist)
* [ClusterImagePolicySpec](#clusterimagepolicyspec)
* [ConfigMapReference](#configmapreference)
* [Identity](#identity)
* [ImagePattern](#imagepattern)
* [KeyRef](#keyref)
* [KeylessRef](#keylessref)
* [MatchResource](#matchresource)
* [Policy](#policy)
* [RFC3161Timestamp](#rfc3161timestamp)
* [RemotePolicy](#remotepolicy)
* [Source](#source)
* [StaticRef](#staticref)
* [TLog](#tlog)

## CertificateAuthority



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| subject | The root certificate MUST be self-signed, and so the subject and issuer are the same. | [DistinguishedName](#distinguishedname) | true |
| uri | The URI at which the CA can be accessed. | apis.URL | true |
| certChain | The certificate chain for this CA in PEM format. Last entry in this chain is the Root certificate. | []byte | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## DistinguishedName



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| organization |  | string | true |
| commonName |  | string | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Remote

Remote specifies the TUF with trusted initial root and remote mirror where to fetch updates from.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| root | Root is the base64 encoded, json trusted initial root. | []byte | true |
| mirror | Mirror is the remote mirror, for example: https://sigstore-tuf-root.storage.googleapis.com | apis.URL | true |
| targets | Targets is where the targets live off of the root of the Remote If not specified 'targets' is defaulted. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Repository

Repository specifies an airgapped TUF. Specifies the trusted initial root as well as a serialized repository.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| root | Root is the base64 encoded, json trusted initial root. | []byte | true |
| mirrorFS | MirrorFS is the base64 tarred, gzipped, and base64 encoded remote repository that can be used for example in air-gap environments. Will not make outbound network connections, and must then be kept up to date in some other manner. The repository must contain metadata as well as targets. | []byte | true |
| targets | Targets is where the targets live off of the root of the Repository above. If not specified 'targets' is defaulted. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## SigstoreKeys

SigstoreKeys contains all the necessary Keys and Certificates for validating against a specific instance of Sigstore. This is used for bringing your own trusted keys/certs. and see how easy it is to replace with protos instead of our custom defs above. https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/pull/5 And in particular: https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/pull/5/files#diff-b1f89b7fd3eb27b519380b092a2416f893a96fbba3f8c90cfa767e7687383ad4R70 Well, not the multi-root, but one instance of that is exactly the SigstoreKeys.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| certificateAuthorities | Trusted certificate authorities (e.g Fulcio). | [][CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority) | true |
| tLogs | Rekor log specifications | [][TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance) | false |
| ctLogs | Certificate Transparency Log | [][TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance) | false |
| timestampAuthorities | Trusted timestamping authorities | [][CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TransparencyLogInstance

TransparencyLogInstance describes the immutable parameters from a transparency log. See https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9162.html#name-log-parameters for more details. The incluced parameters are the minimal set required to identify a log, and verify an inclusion promise.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| baseURL | The base URL which can be used for URLs for clients. | apis.URL | true |
| hashAlgorithm | / The hash algorithm used for the Merkle Tree | string | true |
| publicKey | PEM encoded public key | []byte | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRoot

TrustRoot defines the keys and certificates that are trusted for validating against. These can be specified as TUF Roots, serialized TUF repository (for air-gap scenarios), as well as serialized keys/certificates, for bring your own keys/certs.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ObjectMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#objectmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| spec | Spec is the definition for a trust root. This is either a TUF root and remote or local repository. You can also bring your own keys/certs here. | [TrustRootSpec](#trustrootspec) | true |
| status | Status represents the current state of the TrustRoot. This data may be out of date. | [TrustRootStatus](#trustrootstatus) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootList

TrustRootList is a list of TrustRoot resources

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ListMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#listmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| items |  | [][TrustRoot](#trustroot) | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootSpec

TrustRootSpec defines a trusted Root. This is typically either a TUF Root or a bring your own keys variation. It specifies either: root.json and remote or fully gzipped / tarred directory containing root and metadata directories or serialized keys / certificate chains (bring your own keys).

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| remote | Remote specifies initial root of trust & remote mirror. | [Remote](#remote) | false |
| repository | Repository contains the serialized TUF remote repository. | [Repository](#repository) | false |
| sigstoreKeys | SigstoreKeys contains the serialized keys. | [SigstoreKeys](#sigstorekeys) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootStatus

TrustRootStatus represents the current state of a TrustRoot.


## Attestation

Attestation defines the type of attestation to validate and optionally apply a policy decision to it. Authority block is used to verify the specified attestation types, and if Policy is specified, then it's applied only after the validation of the Attestation signature has been verified.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name of the attestation. These can then be referenced at the CIP level policy. | string | true |
| predicateType | PredicateType defines which predicate type to verify. Matches cosign verify-attestation options. | string | true |
| policy | Policy defines all of the matching signatures, and all of the matching attestations (whose attestations are verified). | [Policy](#policy) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Authority



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name is the name for this authority. Used by the CIP Policy validator to be able to reference matching signature or attestation verifications. If not specified, the name will be authority-<index in array> | string | true |
| key | Key defines the type of key to validate the image. | [KeyRef](#keyref) | false |
| keyless | Keyless sets the configuration to verify the authority against a Fulcio instance. | [KeylessRef](#keylessref) | false |
| static | Static specifies that signatures / attestations are not validated but instead a static policy is applied against matching images. | [StaticRef](#staticref) | false |
| source | Sources sets the configuration to specify the sources from where to consume the signature and attestations. | [][Source](#source) | false |
| ctlog | CTLog sets the configuration to verify the authority against a Rekor instance. | [TLog](#tlog) | false |
| attestations | Attestations is a list of individual attestations for this authority, once the signature for this authority has been verified. | [][Attestation](#attestation) | false |
| rfc3161timestamp | RFC3161Timestamp sets the configuration to verify the signature timestamp against a RFC3161 time-stamping instance. | [RFC3161Timestamp](#rfc3161timestamp) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicy

ClusterImagePolicy defines the images that go through verification and the authorities used for verification

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ObjectMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#objectmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| spec | Spec holds the desired state of the ClusterImagePolicy (from the client). | [ClusterImagePolicySpec](#clusterimagepolicyspec) | true |
| status | Status represents the current state of the ClusterImagePolicy. This data may be out of date. | [ClusterImagePolicyStatus](#clusterimagepolicystatus) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicyList

ClusterImagePolicyList is a list of ClusterImagePolicy resources

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ListMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#listmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| items |  | [][ClusterImagePolicy](#clusterimagepolicy) | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicySpec

ClusterImagePolicySpec defines a list of images that should be verified

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| images | Images defines the patterns of image names that should be subject to this policy. | [][ImagePattern](#imagepattern) | true |
| authorities | Authorities defines the rules for discovering and validating signatures. | [][Authority](#authority) | false |
| policy | Policy is an optional policy that can be applied against all the successfully validated Authorities. If no authorities pass, this does not even get evaluated, as the Policy is considered failed. | [Policy](#policy) | false |
| mode | Mode controls whether a failing policy will be rejected (not admitted), or if errors are converted to Warnings. enforce - Reject (default) warn - allow but warn | string | false |
| match | Match allows selecting resources based on their properties. | [][MatchResource](#matchresource) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicyStatus

ClusterImagePolicyStatus represents the current state of a ClusterImagePolicy.


## ConfigMapReference

ConfigMapReference is cut&paste from SecretReference, but for the life of me couldn't find one in the public types. If there's one, use it.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name is unique within a namespace to reference a configmap resource. | string | false |
| namespace | Namespace defines the space within which the configmap name must be unique. | string | false |
| key | Key defines the key to pull from the configmap. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Identity

Identity may contain the issuer and/or the subject found in the transparency log. Issuer/Subject uses a strict match, while IssuerRegExp and SubjectRegExp apply a regexp for matching.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| issuer | Issuer defines the issuer for this identity. | string | false |
| subject | Subject defines the subject for this identity. | string | false |
| issuerRegExp | IssuerRegExp specifies a regular expression to match the issuer for this identity. | string | false |
| subjectRegExp | SubjectRegExp specifies a regular expression to match the subject for this identity. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ImagePattern

ImagePattern defines a pattern and its associated authorties If multiple patterns match a particular image, then ALL of those authorities must be satisfied for the image to be admitted.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| glob | Glob defines a globbing pattern. | string | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## KeyRef

This references a public verification key stored in a secret in the cosign-system namespace. A KeyRef must specify only one of SecretRef, Data or KMS

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| secretRef | SecretRef sets a reference to a secret with the key. | [v1.SecretReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#secretreference-v1-core) | false |
| data | Data contains the inline public key | string | false |
| kms | KMS contains the KMS url of the public key Supported formats differ based on the KMS system used. | string | false |
| hashAlgorithm | HashAlgorithm always defaults to sha256 if the algorithm hasn't been explicitly set | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## KeylessRef

KeylessRef contains location of the validating certificate and the identities against which to verify. KeylessRef will contain either the URL to the verifying certificate, or it will contain the certificate data inline or in a secret.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL defines a url to the keyless instance. | apis.URL | false |
| identities | Identities sets a list of identities. | [][Identity](#identity) | true |
| ca-cert | CACert sets a reference to CA certificate | [KeyRef](#keyref) | false |
| trustRootRef | Use the Certificate Chain from the referred TrustRoot.CertificateAuthorities and TrustRoot.CTLog | string | false |
| insecureIgnoreSCT | InsecureIgnoreSCT omits verifying if a certificate contains an embedded SCT | bool | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## MatchResource

MatchResource allows selecting resources based on its version, group and resource. It is also possible to select resources based on a list of matching labels.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| selector |  | [metav1.LabelSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#labelselector-v1-meta) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Policy

Policy specifies a policy to use for Attestation or the CIP validation (iff at least one authority matches). Exactly one of Data, URL, or ConfigMapReference must be specified.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | Which kind of policy this is, currently only rego or cue are supported. Furthermore, only cue is tested :) | string | true |
| data | Data contains the policy definition. | string | false |
| remote | Remote defines the url to a policy. | [RemotePolicy](#remotepolicy) | false |
| configMapRef | ConfigMapRef defines the reference to a configMap with the policy definition. | [ConfigMapReference](#configmapreference) | false |
| fetchConfigFile | FetchConfigFile controls whether ConfigFile will be fetched and made available for CIP level policy evaluation. Note that this only gets evaluated (and hence fetched) iff at least one authority matches. The ConfigFile will then be available in this format: https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/config.md | bool | false |
| includeSpec | IncludeSpec controls whether resource `Spec` will be included and made available for CIP level policy evaluation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. Also note that because Spec may be of a different shape depending on the resource being evaluatied (see MatchResource for filtering) you might want to configure these to match the policy file to ensure the shape of the Spec is what you expect when evaling the policy. | bool | false |
| includeObjectMeta | IncludeObjectMeta controls whether the ObjectMeta will be included and made available for CIP level policy evalutation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. | bool | false |
| includeTypeMeta | IncludeTypeMeta controls whether the TypeMeta will be included and made available for CIP level policy evalutation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. | bool | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## RFC3161Timestamp

RFC3161Timestamp specifies the URL to a RFC3161 time-stamping server that holds the time-stamped verification for the signature

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| trustRootRef | Use the Certificate Chain from the referred TrustRoot.TimeStampAuthorities | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## RemotePolicy

RemotePolicy defines all the properties to fetch a remote policy

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL to the policy data. | apis.URL | false |
| sha256sum | Sha256sum defines the exact sha256sum computed out of the 'body' of the http response. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Source

Source specifies the location of the signature / attestations.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| oci | OCI defines the registry from where to pull the signature / attestations. | string | false |
| signaturePullSecrets | SignaturePullSecrets is an optional list of references to secrets in the same namespace as the deploying resource for pulling any of the signatures used by this Source. | [][v1.LocalObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#localobjectreference-v1-core) | false |
| tagPrefix | TagPrefix is an optional prefix that signature and attestations have. This is the 'tag based discovery' and in the future once references are fully supported that should likely be the preferred way to handle these. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## StaticRef

StaticRef specifies that signatures / attestations are not validated but instead a static policy is applied against matching images.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| action | Action defines how to handle a matching policy. | string | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TLog

TLog specifies the URL to a transparency log that holds the signature and public key information

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL sets the url to the rekor instance (by default the public rekor.sigstore.dev) | apis.URL | false |
| trustRootRef | Use the Public Key from the referred TrustRoot.TLog | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

Commit message:

Add an optional Message to Static actions for custom fail message.
Signed-off-by: Ville Aikas <vaikas@chainguard.dev>

docs/api-types/index-v1alpha1.md, after:



# API Documentation (v1alpha1)

> This document is automatically generated from the API definition in the code.

## Table of Contents
* [CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority)
* [DistinguishedName](#distinguishedname)
* [Remote](#remote)
* [Repository](#repository)
* [SigstoreKeys](#sigstorekeys)
* [TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance)
* [TrustRoot](#trustroot)
* [TrustRootList](#trustrootlist)
* [TrustRootSpec](#trustrootspec)
* [Attestation](#attestation)
* [Authority](#authority)
* [ClusterImagePolicy](#clusterimagepolicy)
* [ClusterImagePolicyList](#clusterimagepolicylist)
* [ClusterImagePolicySpec](#clusterimagepolicyspec)
* [ConfigMapReference](#configmapreference)
* [Identity](#identity)
* [ImagePattern](#imagepattern)
* [KeyRef](#keyref)
* [KeylessRef](#keylessref)
* [MatchResource](#matchresource)
* [Policy](#policy)
* [RFC3161Timestamp](#rfc3161timestamp)
* [RemotePolicy](#remotepolicy)
* [Source](#source)
* [StaticRef](#staticref)
* [TLog](#tlog)

## CertificateAuthority



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| subject | The root certificate MUST be self-signed, and so the subject and issuer are the same. | [DistinguishedName](#distinguishedname) | true |
| uri | The URI at which the CA can be accessed. | apis.URL | true |
| certChain | The certificate chain for this CA in PEM format. Last entry in this chain is the Root certificate. | []byte | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## DistinguishedName



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| organization |  | string | true |
| commonName |  | string | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Remote

Remote specifies the TUF with trusted initial root and remote mirror where to fetch updates from.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| root | Root is the base64 encoded, json trusted initial root. | []byte | true |
| mirror | Mirror is the remote mirror, for example: https://sigstore-tuf-root.storage.googleapis.com | apis.URL | true |
| targets | Targets is where the targets live off of the root of the Remote If not specified 'targets' is defaulted. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Repository

Repository specifies an airgapped TUF. Specifies the trusted initial root as well as a serialized repository.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| root | Root is the base64 encoded, json trusted initial root. | []byte | true |
| mirrorFS | MirrorFS is the base64 tarred, gzipped, and base64 encoded remote repository that can be used for example in air-gap environments. Will not make outbound network connections, and must then be kept up to date in some other manner. The repository must contain metadata as well as targets. | []byte | true |
| targets | Targets is where the targets live off of the root of the Repository above. If not specified 'targets' is defaulted. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## SigstoreKeys

SigstoreKeys contains all the necessary Keys and Certificates for validating against a specific instance of Sigstore. This is used for bringing your own trusted keys/certs. and see how easy it is to replace with protos instead of our custom defs above. https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/pull/5 And in particular: https://github.com/sigstore/protobuf-specs/pull/5/files#diff-b1f89b7fd3eb27b519380b092a2416f893a96fbba3f8c90cfa767e7687383ad4R70 Well, not the multi-root, but one instance of that is exactly the SigstoreKeys.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| certificateAuthorities | Trusted certificate authorities (e.g Fulcio). | [][CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority) | true |
| tLogs | Rekor log specifications | [][TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance) | false |
| ctLogs | Certificate Transparency Log | [][TransparencyLogInstance](#transparencyloginstance) | false |
| timestampAuthorities | Trusted timestamping authorities | [][CertificateAuthority](#certificateauthority) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TransparencyLogInstance

TransparencyLogInstance describes the immutable parameters from a transparency log. See https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9162.html#name-log-parameters for more details. The incluced parameters are the minimal set required to identify a log, and verify an inclusion promise.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| baseURL | The base URL which can be used for URLs for clients. | apis.URL | true |
| hashAlgorithm | / The hash algorithm used for the Merkle Tree | string | true |
| publicKey | PEM encoded public key | []byte | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRoot

TrustRoot defines the keys and certificates that are trusted for validating against. These can be specified as TUF Roots, serialized TUF repository (for air-gap scenarios), as well as serialized keys/certificates, for bring your own keys/certs.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ObjectMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#objectmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| spec | Spec is the definition for a trust root. This is either a TUF root and remote or local repository. You can also bring your own keys/certs here. | [TrustRootSpec](#trustrootspec) | true |
| status | Status represents the current state of the TrustRoot. This data may be out of date. | [TrustRootStatus](#trustrootstatus) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootList

TrustRootList is a list of TrustRoot resources

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ListMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#listmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| items |  | [][TrustRoot](#trustroot) | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootSpec

TrustRootSpec defines a trusted Root. This is typically either a TUF Root or a bring your own keys variation. It specifies either: root.json and remote or fully gzipped / tarred directory containing root and metadata directories or serialized keys / certificate chains (bring your own keys).

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| remote | Remote specifies initial root of trust & remote mirror. | [Remote](#remote) | false |
| repository | Repository contains the serialized TUF remote repository. | [Repository](#repository) | false |
| sigstoreKeys | SigstoreKeys contains the serialized keys. | [SigstoreKeys](#sigstorekeys) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TrustRootStatus

TrustRootStatus represents the current state of a TrustRoot.


## Attestation

Attestation defines the type of attestation to validate and optionally apply a policy decision to it. Authority block is used to verify the specified attestation types, and if Policy is specified, then it's applied only after the validation of the Attestation signature has been verified.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name of the attestation. These can then be referenced at the CIP level policy. | string | true |
| predicateType | PredicateType defines which predicate type to verify. Matches cosign verify-attestation options. | string | true |
| policy | Policy defines all of the matching signatures, and all of the matching attestations (whose attestations are verified). | [Policy](#policy) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Authority



| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name is the name for this authority. Used by the CIP Policy validator to be able to reference matching signature or attestation verifications. If not specified, the name will be authority-<index in array> | string | true |
| key | Key defines the type of key to validate the image. | [KeyRef](#keyref) | false |
| keyless | Keyless sets the configuration to verify the authority against a Fulcio instance. | [KeylessRef](#keylessref) | false |
| static | Static specifies that signatures / attestations are not validated but instead a static policy is applied against matching images. | [StaticRef](#staticref) | false |
| source | Sources sets the configuration to specify the sources from where to consume the signature and attestations. | [][Source](#source) | false |
| ctlog | CTLog sets the configuration to verify the authority against a Rekor instance. | [TLog](#tlog) | false |
| attestations | Attestations is a list of individual attestations for this authority, once the signature for this authority has been verified. | [][Attestation](#attestation) | false |
| rfc3161timestamp | RFC3161Timestamp sets the configuration to verify the signature timestamp against a RFC3161 time-stamping instance. | [RFC3161Timestamp](#rfc3161timestamp) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicy

ClusterImagePolicy defines the images that go through verification and the authorities used for verification

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ObjectMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#objectmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| spec | Spec holds the desired state of the ClusterImagePolicy (from the client). | [ClusterImagePolicySpec](#clusterimagepolicyspec) | true |
| status | Status represents the current state of the ClusterImagePolicy. This data may be out of date. | [ClusterImagePolicyStatus](#clusterimagepolicystatus) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicyList

ClusterImagePolicyList is a list of ClusterImagePolicy resources

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| metadata |  | [metav1.ListMeta](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#listmeta-v1-meta) | true |
| items |  | [][ClusterImagePolicy](#clusterimagepolicy) | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicySpec

ClusterImagePolicySpec defines a list of images that should be verified

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| images | Images defines the patterns of image names that should be subject to this policy. | [][ImagePattern](#imagepattern) | true |
| authorities | Authorities defines the rules for discovering and validating signatures. | [][Authority](#authority) | false |
| policy | Policy is an optional policy that can be applied against all the successfully validated Authorities. If no authorities pass, this does not even get evaluated, as the Policy is considered failed. | [Policy](#policy) | false |
| mode | Mode controls whether a failing policy will be rejected (not admitted), or if errors are converted to Warnings. enforce - Reject (default) warn - allow but warn | string | false |
| match | Match allows selecting resources based on their properties. | [][MatchResource](#matchresource) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ClusterImagePolicyStatus

ClusterImagePolicyStatus represents the current state of a ClusterImagePolicy.


## ConfigMapReference

ConfigMapReference is cut&paste from SecretReference, but for the life of me couldn't find one in the public types. If there's one, use it.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| name | Name is unique within a namespace to reference a configmap resource. | string | false |
| namespace | Namespace defines the space within which the configmap name must be unique. | string | false |
| key | Key defines the key to pull from the configmap. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Identity

Identity may contain the issuer and/or the subject found in the transparency log. Issuer/Subject uses a strict match, while IssuerRegExp and SubjectRegExp apply a regexp for matching.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| issuer | Issuer defines the issuer for this identity. | string | false |
| subject | Subject defines the subject for this identity. | string | false |
| issuerRegExp | IssuerRegExp specifies a regular expression to match the issuer for this identity. | string | false |
| subjectRegExp | SubjectRegExp specifies a regular expression to match the subject for this identity. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## ImagePattern

ImagePattern defines a pattern and its associated authorties If multiple patterns match a particular image, then ALL of those authorities must be satisfied for the image to be admitted.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| glob | Glob defines a globbing pattern. | string | true |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## KeyRef

This references a public verification key stored in a secret in the cosign-system namespace. A KeyRef must specify only one of SecretRef, Data or KMS

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| secretRef | SecretRef sets a reference to a secret with the key. | [v1.SecretReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#secretreference-v1-core) | false |
| data | Data contains the inline public key | string | false |
| kms | KMS contains the KMS url of the public key Supported formats differ based on the KMS system used. | string | false |
| hashAlgorithm | HashAlgorithm always defaults to sha256 if the algorithm hasn't been explicitly set | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## KeylessRef

KeylessRef contains location of the validating certificate and the identities against which to verify. KeylessRef will contain either the URL to the verifying certificate, or it will contain the certificate data inline or in a secret.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL defines a url to the keyless instance. | apis.URL | false |
| identities | Identities sets a list of identities. | [][Identity](#identity) | true |
| ca-cert | CACert sets a reference to CA certificate | [KeyRef](#keyref) | false |
| trustRootRef | Use the Certificate Chain from the referred TrustRoot.CertificateAuthorities and TrustRoot.CTLog | string | false |
| insecureIgnoreSCT | InsecureIgnoreSCT omits verifying if a certificate contains an embedded SCT | bool | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## MatchResource

MatchResource allows selecting resources based on its version, group and resource. It is also possible to select resources based on a list of matching labels.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| selector |  | [metav1.LabelSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#labelselector-v1-meta) | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Policy

Policy specifies a policy to use for Attestation or the CIP validation (iff at least one authority matches). Exactly one of Data, URL, or ConfigMapReference must be specified.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| type | Which kind of policy this is, currently only rego or cue are supported. Furthermore, only cue is tested :) | string | true |
| data | Data contains the policy definition. | string | false |
| remote | Remote defines the url to a policy. | [RemotePolicy](#remotepolicy) | false |
| configMapRef | ConfigMapRef defines the reference to a configMap with the policy definition. | [ConfigMapReference](#configmapreference) | false |
| fetchConfigFile | FetchConfigFile controls whether ConfigFile will be fetched and made available for CIP level policy evaluation. Note that this only gets evaluated (and hence fetched) iff at least one authority matches. The ConfigFile will then be available in this format: https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/config.md | bool | false |
| includeSpec | IncludeSpec controls whether resource `Spec` will be included and made available for CIP level policy evaluation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. Also note that because Spec may be of a different shape depending on the resource being evaluatied (see MatchResource for filtering) you might want to configure these to match the policy file to ensure the shape of the Spec is what you expect when evaling the policy. | bool | false |
| includeObjectMeta | IncludeObjectMeta controls whether the ObjectMeta will be included and made available for CIP level policy evalutation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. | bool | false |
| includeTypeMeta | IncludeTypeMeta controls whether the TypeMeta will be included and made available for CIP level policy evalutation. Note that this only gets evaluated iff at least one authority matches. | bool | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## RFC3161Timestamp

RFC3161Timestamp specifies the URL to a RFC3161 time-stamping server that holds the time-stamped verification for the signature

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| trustRootRef | Use the Certificate Chain from the referred TrustRoot.TimeStampAuthorities | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## RemotePolicy

RemotePolicy defines all the properties to fetch a remote policy

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL to the policy data. | apis.URL | false |
| sha256sum | Sha256sum defines the exact sha256sum computed out of the 'body' of the http response. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## Source

Source specifies the location of the signature / attestations.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| oci | OCI defines the registry from where to pull the signature / attestations. | string | false |
| signaturePullSecrets | SignaturePullSecrets is an optional list of references to secrets in the same namespace as the deploying resource for pulling any of the signatures used by this Source. | [][v1.LocalObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#localobjectreference-v1-core) | false |
| tagPrefix | TagPrefix is an optional prefix that signature and attestations have. This is the 'tag based discovery' and in the future once references are fully supported that should likely be the preferred way to handle these. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## StaticRef

StaticRef specifies that signatures / attestations are not validated but instead a static policy is applied against matching images.

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| action | Action defines how to handle a matching policy. | string | true |
| message | For fail actions, emit an optional custom message. This only makes sense for 'fail' action because on 'pass' there's no place to jot down the message. | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)

## TLog

TLog specifies the URL to a transparency log that holds the signature and public key information

| Field | Description | Scheme | Required |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ | -------- |
| url | URL sets the url to the rekor instance (by default the public rekor.sigstore.dev) | apis.URL | false |
| trustRootRef | Use the Public Key from the referred TrustRoot.TLog | string | false |

[Back to TOC](#table-of-contents)
